# Romans 16 #

## 1 ##
"I commend to you our sister Phoebe, a servant of the church at Cenchreae,"

## 2 ##
"that you may welcome her in the Lord in a way worthy of the saints, and help her in whatever she may need from you, for she has been a patron of many and of myself as well."

## 3 ##
"Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus,"

## 4 ##
"who risked their necks for my life, to whom not only I give thanks but all the churches of the Gentiles give thanks as well."

## 5 ##
"Greet also the church in their house. Greet my beloved Epaenetus, who was the first convert to Christ in Asia."

## 6 ##
"Greet Mary, who has worked hard for you."

## 7 ##
"Greet Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen and my fellow prisoners. They are well known to the apostles, and they were in Christ before me."

## 8 ##
"Greet Ampliatus, my beloved in the Lord."

## 9 ##
"Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and my beloved Stachys."

## 10 ##
"Greet Apelles, who is approved in Christ. Greet those who belong to the family of Aristobulus."

## 11 ##
"Greet my kinsman Herodion. Greet those in the Lord who belong to the family of Narcissus."

## 12 ##
"Greet those workers in the Lord, Tryphaena and Tryphosa. Greet the beloved Persis, who has worked hard in the Lord."

## 13 ##
"Greet Rufus, chosen in the Lord; also his mother, who has been a mother to me as well."

## 14 ##
"Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers who are with them."

## 15 ##
"Greet Philologus, Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them."

## 16 ##
"Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you."

## 17 ##
"I appeal to you, brothers, to watch out for those who cause divisions and create obstacles contrary to the doctrine that you have been taught; avoid them."

### watch out ###

The same word (σκοπέω) is used in Philippians 3:17, where it is rendered "keep your eyes on."  However, in Philippians these are watched for the good they do rather than the evil detailed here in Romans. Nonetheless, even Philippians contrasts these good examples immediately with the same kind of evil detailed in Romans.
>**[Philippians 3:17-18](../Philippians/03.md#17)**  
Brothers, join in imitating me, and _keep your eyes on_ those who walk according to the example you have in us. For many, of whom I have often told you and now tell you even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of Christ.  

### those who cause divisions and create obstacles contrary to the doctrine that you have been taught ###

This entire phrase is one entity in the Greek: those who. They are making both divisions and obstacles. The divisions and obstacles are both contrary to the doctrine.  
> τοὺς τὰς διχοστασίας καὶ τὰ σκάνδαλα παρὰ τὴν διδαχὴν ἣν ὑμεῖς ἐμάθετε ποιοῦντας  


### those who ###
Note that we are to watch out for people who do such things.  There is a subtle but important difference between watching out for divisions and watching out for people who cause them.  Compare:  
>**[2 Peter 2:1](../2_Peter/02.md#1)**  
But false _prophets_ also arose among the people, just as there will be false _teachers_ among you....  


### divisions ###

### obstacles ###
This word (σκάνδαλον) is literally "a trap or snare (laid for an enemy)." (see [Liddell & Scott](http://stephanus.tlg.uci.edu/lsj/#eid=97283))  

>**[Luke 17:1](../Luke/17.md#1)**  
And he said to his disciples, "_Temptations to sin_ are sure to come, but woe to the one through whom they come!"  

>**[Revelation 2:14](../Revelation/02.md#14)**  
But I have a few things against you: you have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to put _a stumbling block_ before the sons of Israel, so that they might eat food sacrificed to idols and practice sexual immorality.  

>**[1 John 2:10](../1_John/2.md#10)**  
Whoever loves his brother abides in the light, and in him there is no _cause for stumbling_.  


### contrary to the doctrine ###
>**[2 Peter 2:1](../2_Peter/02.md#1)**  
...False _teachers_ among you...will secretly bring in _destructive heresies_....  


### avoid them ###
This word (ἐκκλίνω) is literally "turn away, avoid, or shun." (see [Liddell & Scott](http://stephanus.tlg.uci.edu/lsj/#eid=33203))  

## 18 ##
"For such persons do not serve our Lord Christ, but their own appetites, and by smooth talk and flattery they deceive the hearts of the naive."

### do not serve our Lord ###
>**[2 Peter 2:1](../2_Peter/02.md#1)**  
...False teachers among you...will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even _denying the Master who bought them_....  

>**[Philippians 3:18](../Philippians/03.md#18)**  
For many...walk as _enemies_ of the cross of Christ.  


### their own appetites ###
>**[Philippians 3:19](../Philippians/03.md#19)**  
Their end is destruction, their god is _their belly_, and they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly things.  


### smooth talk and flattery ###
>**[2 Peter 2:3](../2_Peter/02.md#3)**  
And in their greed they will _exploit you with false words_....  

> τῆς χρηστολογίας καὶ εὐλογίας  

Although they actually cause divisions and lay traps, their _words_ seem plausible and uplifting.  

"Smooth talk" is literally "plausible or useful talk." (see [Liddell & Scott](http://stephanus.tlg.uci.edu/lsj/#eid=117708))  

In 1 Peter, the "useful" or "good" is tasted in the Lord through the milk of the word:  
>**[1 Peter 2:2](../1_Peter/02.md#2)**  
Like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up into salvation--if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is _good_.  


"Flattery" is elsewhere rendered "blessing." (see [Liddell & Scott](http://stephanus.tlg.uci.edu/lsj/#eid=45586))  
>**[1 Corinthians 10:16](../1_Corinthians/10.md#16)**  
The cup of _blessing_ that we bless, is it not a participation in the blood of Christ?  


### naive ###
>**[2 Peter 2:2](../2_Peter/02.md#2)**  
And many will follow their sensuality, and because of them the way of truth will be blasphemed.  

This word (ἄκακος) is literally, "unknowing of ill, guileless; innocent, simple." (see [Liddell & Scott](http://stephanus.tlg.uci.edu/lsj/#eid=2997))  

## 19 ##
"For your obedience is known to all, so that I rejoice over you, but I want you to be wise as to what is good and innocent as to what is evil."

## 20 ##
"The God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you."

## 21 ##
"Timothy, my fellow worker, greets you; so do Lucius and Jason and Sosipater, my kinsmen."

## 22 ##
"I Tertius, who wrote this letter, greet you in the Lord."

## 23 ##
"Gaius, who is host to me and to the whole church, greets you. Erastus, the city treasurer, and our brother Quartus, greet you."

## 24 ##
""

## 25 ##
"Now to him who is able to strengthen you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery that was kept secret for long ages"

## 26 ##
"but has now been disclosed and through the prophetic writings has been made known to all nations, according to the command of the eternal God, to bring about the obedience of faith--"

## 27 ##
"to the only wise God be glory forevermore through Jesus Christ! Amen."
