# Chapter 1 #
## 1 ##
"The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants the things that must soon take place. He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John,"

### He made it known ###
Compare English "semaphore"

### by sending his angel to his servant ###
> **[Zechariah 1:9](../Zechariah/01.md#9)**  
Then I said, 'What are these, my lord?' The angel who talked with me said to me, 'I will show you what they are.'

### things that must soon take place ###
>**[4:1](04.md#1)**  
"Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this."
>**[22:6](22.md#6)**  
And he said to me, "These words are trustworthy and true. And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent his angel to show his servants what must soon take place."


## 2 ##
"who bore witness to the word of God and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, even to all that he saw."


## 3 ##
"Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear, and who keep what is written in it, for the time is near."

### the words of this prophecy ###
The Prophets are the interpretive key to the Revelation.

### for the time is near ###
> **[Romans 13:11](../Romans/13.md#11)**  
Besides this you know the time, that the hour has come for you to wake from sleep. For salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed.


## 1-3 ##
> **[Revelation 22:6](22.md#6)**  
And he said to me, "These words are trustworthy and true. And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent his angel to show his servants what must soon take place."

> **[Zechariah 1:4-6](../Zechariah/01.md#4)**  
Do not be like your fathers, to whom the former prophets cried out, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, Return from your evil ways and from your evil deeds.' But they did not hear or pay attention to me, declares the LORD. Your fathers, where are they? And the prophets, do they live forever? But my words and my statutes, which I commanded my servants the prophets, did they not overtake your fathers? So they repented and said, 'As the LORD of hosts purposed to deal with us for our ways and deeds, so has he dealt with us.'"


## 4 ##
"John to the seven churches that are in Asia: Grace to you and peace from him who is and who was and who is to come, and from the seven spirits who are before his throne,"

### him who is and who was and who is to come ###
> **[Hebrews 13:8](../Hebrews/13.md#8)**  
> Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever.

### seven spirits ###
> **[Zechariah 3:6-9](../Zechariah/03.md#6)**  
The angel of the LORD solemnly assured Joshua, "Thus says the LORD of hosts: If you will walk in my ways and keep my charge, then you shall rule my house and have charge of my courts, and I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here. Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for they are men who are a sign: behold, I will bring my servant the Branch. For behold, on the stone that I have set before Joshua, on a single stone with seven eyes, I will engrave its inscription, declares the LORD of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day.

> **[Zechariah 4:8-10](../Zechariah/04.md#8)**  
Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying, "The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this house; his hands shall also complete it. Then you will know that the LORD of hosts has sent me to you. For whoever has despised the day of small things shall rejoice, and shall see the plumb line in the hand of Zerubbabel. "These seven are the eyes of the LORD, which range through the whole earth."


## 5 ##
"and from Jesus Christ the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of kings on earth. To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood"

### firstborn of the dead ###
> **[Romans 8:29](../Romans/08.md#29)**  
Those whom he foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers.

> **[Colossians 1:15, 18](../Colossians/01.md#15)**  
He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation.

> And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent.

###  ruler of kings on earth ###

### freed us from our sins by his blood ###


## 6 ##
"and made us a kingdom, priests to his God and Father, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen."

### a kingdom, priests ###


## 10 ##
"I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a loud voice like a trumpet"

### in the spirit ###
### the Lord's day ###
### loud voice like a trumpet ###


## 12 ##
"Then I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me, and on turning I saw seven golden lampstands,"


## seven golden lampstands ##
> **[1:20](01.md#20)**  
the seven lampstands are the seven churches


## 13 ##
"and in the midst of the lampstands one like a son of man, clothed with a long robe and with a golden sash around his chest."

### midst of the lampstands ###
### one like a son of man ###
> **[Daniel 7:13-14](../Daniel/07.md#13)**  
I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man, and he came to the Ancient of Days and was presented before him. And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him; his dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed.

### clothed with a long robe and...a golden sash around his chest ###
> **[Exodus 28:3-6](../Exodus/28.md#3)**  
You shall speak to all the skillful, whom I have filled with a spirit of skill, that they make Aaron's garments to consecrate him for my priesthood. These are the garments that they shall make: a breastpiece, an ephod, a robe, a coat of checker work, a turban, and a sash. They shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother and his sons to serve me as priests. They shall receive gold, blue and purple and scarlet yarns, and fine twined linen. And they shall make the ephod of gold, of blue and purple and scarlet yarns, and of fine twined linen, skillfully worked.
>**[Ezekiel 1:26–28](../Ezekiel/01.md#26)**  
And above the expanse over their heads there was the likeness of a throne, in appearance like sapphire; and seated above the likeness of a throne was a likeness with a human appearance. And upward from what had the appearance of his waist I saw as it were gleaming metal, like the appearance of fire enclosed all around. And downward from what had the appearance of his waist I saw as it were the appearance of fire, and there was brightness around him. Like the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud on the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness all around. Such was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the LORD. And when I saw it, I fell on my face, and I heard the voice of one speaking.
>**[Ezekiel 8:2](../Ezekiel/08.md#2)**  
Then I looked, and behold, a form that had the appearance of a man. Below what appeared to be his waist was fire, and above his waist was something like the appearance of brightness, like gleaming metal.

## 14 ##
"The hairs of his head were white, like white wool, like snow. His eyes were like a flame of fire,"

> **[Daniel 7:9](../Daniel/07.md#9)**  
As I looked, thrones were placed, and the Ancient of Days took his seat; his clothing was white as snow, and the hair of his head like pure wool; his throne was fiery flames; its wheels were burning fire.

### hairs of his head were white ###
### like white wool ###
### like snow ###
### eyes...like a flame of fire ###


## 15 ##
"his feet were like burnished bronze, refined in a furnace, and his voice was like the roar of many waters."

### feet...like burnished bronze ###
### refined in a furnace ###
### voice...like the roar of many waters ###


## 16 ##
"In his right hand he held seven stars, from his mouth came a sharp two-edged sword, and his face was like the sun shining in full strength."

### held seven stars ###
> **[1:20](#20)**  
"As for the mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand..., the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches...."

### from his mouth...a sharp two-edged sword ###
> **[Hebrews 4:12](../Hebrews/04.md#12)**  
The word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart.

> **[Ephesians 6:17](../Ephesians/06.md#17)**  
...take...the sword of the Spirit, who is the Word of God....

Compare 2:12


### face...like the sun shining in full strength ###
> **[Matthew 17:2](../Matthew/17.md#2)**  
He was transfigured before them, and his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white as light.

> **[2 Peter 1:16-18](../2_Peter/01.md#16)**  
We were eyewitnesses of his majesty. For when he received honor and glory from God the Father, and the voice was borne to him by the Majestic Glory, "This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased," we ourselves heard this very voice borne from heaven, for we were with him on the holy mountain.

> **[1 John 1:1-3](../1_John/01.md#1)**  
That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we looked upon and have touched with our hands, concerning the word of life--the life was made manifest, and we have seen it, and testify to it and proclaim to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and was made manifest to us--that which we have seen and heard we proclaim also to you....

> **[2 Corinthians 3:7-8, 12-13](../2_Corinthians/03.md#7)**  
Now if the ministry of death, carved in letters on stone, came with such glory that the Israelites could not gaze at Moses' face because of its glory, which was being brought to an end, will not the ministry of the Spirit have even more glory?

> Since we have such a hope, we are very bold, not like Moses, who would put a veil over his face so that the Israelites might not gaze at the outcome of what was being brought to an end.


## 17 ##
"When I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. But he laid his right hand on me, saying, "Fear not, I am the first and the last,"

### fell at his feet as though dead   ###
> **[Mark 5:22-24](../Mark/05.md#22)**  
Then came one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jairus by name, and seeing him, he fell at his feet and implored him earnestly, saying, "My little daughter is at the point of death. Come and lay your hands on her, so that she may be made well and live."  And he went with him.

> **[John 11:32](../John/11.md#32)**  
Now when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, "Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died."

> **[Daniel 8:15-19](../Daniel/08.md#15)**  
When I, Daniel, had seen the vision, I sought to understand it. And behold, there stood before me one having the appearance of a man.  And I heard a man's voice between the banks of the Ulai, and it called, "Gabriel, make this man understand the vision."  So he came near where I stood. And when he came, I was frightened and fell on my face. But he said to me, "Understand, O son of man, that the vision is for the time of the end."  And when he had spoken to me, I fell into a deep sleep with my face to the ground. But he touched me and made me stand up.  He said, "Behold, I will make known to you what shall be at the latter end of the indignation, for it refers to the appointed time of the end."


### laid his right hand on me   ###
### I am the first and the last   ###
> **[Isaiah 41:4](../Isaiah/41.md#4)**  
Who has performed and done this, calling the generations from the beginning? I, the LORD, the first, and with the last; I am he.

> **[Isaiah 44:6-8](../Isaiah/44.md#6)**  
Thus says the LORD, the King of Israel and his Redeemer, the LORD of hosts: "I am the first and I am the last; besides me there is no god. Who is like me? Let him proclaim it. Let him declare and set it before me, since I appointed an ancient people. Let them declare what is to come, and what will happen. Fear not, nor be afraid; have I not told you from of old and declared it? And you are my witnesses! Is there a God besides me? There is no Rock; I know not any."

> **[Isaiah 48:12-14, 20](../Isaiah/48.md#12)**  
Listen to me, O Jacob, and Israel, whom I called! I am he; I am the first, and I am the last. My hand laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand spread out the heavens; when I call to them, they stand forth together. "Assemble, all of you, and listen! Who among them has declared these things? The LORD loves him; he shall perform his purpose on Babylon, and his arm shall be against the Chaldeans.

> Go out from Babylon, flee from Chaldea, declare this with a shout of joy, proclaim it, send it out to the end of the earth; say, "The LORD has redeemed his servant Jacob!"


## 18 ##
"and the living one. I died, and behold I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of Death and Hades."

### the living one ###
### I died, and behold I am alive forevermore ###
> **[Romans 6:9](../Romans/06.md#9)**  
We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again; death no longer has dominion over him.

### keys of Death and Hades ###
> **[Acts 2:24-27, 31](../Acts/02.md#24)**  
God raised him up, loosing the pangs of death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it. For David says concerning him, "I saw the Lord always before me, for he is at my right hand that I may not be shaken; therefore my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced; my flesh also will dwell in hope. For you will not abandon my soul to Hades, or let your Holy One see corruption...."

> For he foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption.

> **[Matthew 16:18](../Matthew/16.md#18)**  
On this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.

> **[1 Corinthians 15:53-55](../1_Corinthians/15.md#53)**  
This perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality. When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written:
"Death is swallowed up in victory."
"O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting?"


## 19 ##
"Write therefore the things that you have seen, those that are and those that are to take place after this."


## 20 ##
"As for the mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands, the seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches."


[Bible Commentary Table of Contents](../README.md#Contents)
