Revelation
==========
[Chapter 1](#chapter-1)
[Chapter 2](#chapter-2)
[Chapter 3](#chapter-3)
[Chapter 4](#chapter-4)
[Chapter 5](#chapter-5)
[Chapter 6](#chapter-6)
[Chapter 7](#chapter-7)
[Chapter 8](#chapter-8)
[Chapter 9](#chapter-9)
[Chapter 10](#chapter-10)
[Chapter 11](#chapter-11)
[Chapter 12](#chapter-12)
[Chapter 13](#chapter-13)
[Chapter 14](#chapter-14)
[Chapter 15](#chapter-15)
[Chapter 16](#chapter-16)
[Chapter 17](#chapter-17)
[Chapter 18](#chapter-18)
[Chapter 19](#chapter-19)
[Chapter 20](#chapter-20)
[Chapter 21](#chapter-21)
[Chapter 22](#chapter-22)

[Appendix](#appendix)

# Chapter 2 #
## 2:1 ##
"To the angel of the church in Ephesus write: 'The words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand, who walks among the seven golden lampstands."


## 2:2 ##
"'I know your works, your toil and your patient endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are evil, but have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not, and found them to be false."


## 2:3 ##
"I know you are enduring patiently and bearing up for my name's sake, and you have not grown weary."


## 2:4 ##
"But I have this against you, that you have abandoned the love you had at first."


## 2:5 ##
"Remember therefore from where you have fallen; repent, and do the works you did at first. If not, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent."


## 2:6 ##
"Yet this you have: you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate."

### Nicolaitans   ###
Compare 2:15
Note that Ephesus does not have any who hold the teachings of the Nicolaitans, but rather knows about them and prevents them (2:2).  The congregation who houses them is Pergamum.


## 2:7 ##
"He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers I will grant to eat of the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God.'"

### He who has an ear, let him hear   ###
Compare 2:11, 2:17, 2:29, 3:6, 3:13, 3:22

> **Mark 4:9-13**
And he said, "He who has ears to hear, let him hear." And when he was alone, those around him with the twelve asked him about the parables. And he said to them, "To you has been given the secret of the kingdom of God, but for those outside everything is in parables, so that "'they may indeed see but not perceive, and may indeed hear but not understand, lest they should turn and be forgiven.'" And he said to them, "Do you not understand this parable? How then will you understand all the parables?

> **Mark 4:21-25**
And he said to them, "Is a lamp brought in to be put under a basket, or under a bed, and not on a stand? For nothing is hidden except to be made manifest; nor is anything secret except to come to light. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear." And he said to them, "Pay attention to what you hear: with the measure you use, it will be measured to you, and still more will be added to you. For to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away."

> **Jeremiah 6:10, 13-17**
To whom shall I speak and give warning,
that they may hear?
Behold, their ears are uncircumcised,
they cannot listen;
behold, the word of the LORD is to them an object of scorn;
they take no pleasure in it....

> For from the least to the greatest of them,
everyone is greedy for unjust gain;
and from prophet to priest,
everyone deals falsely.
They have healed the wound of my people lightly,
saying, 'Peace, peace,'
when there is no peace.
Were they ashamed when they committed abomination?
No, they were not at all ashamed;
they did not know how to blush....

> Thus says the LORD:
"Stand by the roads, and look,
and ask for the ancient paths,
where the good way is; and walk in it,
and find rest for your souls.
But they said, 'We will not walk in it.'
I set watchmen over you, saying,
'Pay attention to the sound of the trumpet!'
But they said, 'We will not pay attention.'


## 2:8 ##
"And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write: 'The words of the first and the last, who died and came to life."


## 2:9 ##
"'I know your tribulation and your poverty (but you are rich) and the slander of those who say that they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan."


## 2:10 ##
"Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, that you may be tested, and for ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life."


## 2:11 ##
"He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. The one who conquers will not be hurt by the second death.'"


## 2:12 ##
"And to the angel of the church in Pergamum write: 'The words of him who has the sharp two-edged sword."

### two-edged sword ###
Refer to note at 1:16


## 2:13 ##
"'I know where you dwell, where Satan's throne is. Yet you hold fast my name, and you did not deny my faith even in the days of Antipas my faithful witness, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells."

### Satan's throne ###
From https://www.ancient.eu/pergamon/
> Pergamon reached the height of its influence during the Hellenistic period, becoming the capital of the Attalid kings. During the Roman period the city was the first capital of the Asian province, but it eventually lost this status to local rival, Ephesus.

> Under Hadrian (117-138 CE), the city was favoured by several imperial initiatives. It was granted the title of metropolis and as a result of this an ambitious building programme was carried out: massive temples, a stadium, a theatre, a huge forum, and an amphitheatre were constructed. In addition, at the city limits the shrine to Asclepius (the god of healing) was expanded into a lavish spa.

> The archaeological site of Pergamon has provided many fine works of Hellenistic and Roman art but perhaps the most impressive is the altar which now resides in the Pergamon Museum in Berlin.


### Antipas my faithful witness ###
A New Testament "witness" actually laid eyes on the events or persons about whom they testify.  Whether Antipas became a witness of Christ as Stephen had in Acts 7:56, or had been in Judea in the time of Jesus (compare 2 Corinthians 5:16), or was among the "more than five hundred brothers" who saw Him after His resurrection in 1 Corinthians 15:6 is not known.  Both Christ standing when Stephen died and here mentioning Antipas by name illustrate Christ's regard for the lives of His saints.
> **Psalm 116:16-17**
Precious in the sight of the LORD
is the death of his saints.
O LORD, I am your servant;
I am your servant, the son of your maidservant.
You have loosed my bonds.


## 2:14 ##
"But I have a few things against you: you have some there who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, so that they might eat food sacrificed to idols and practice sexual immorality."

### the teaching of Balaam ###
> **Numbers 24:10-11**
Balak's anger was kindled against Balaam, and he struck his hands together. And Balak said to Balaam, "I called you to curse my enemies, and behold, you have blessed them these three times. Therefore now flee to your own place. I said, 'I will certainly honor you,' but the LORD has held you back from honor."

> **Numbers 25:1-5**
While Israel lived in Shittim, the people began to whore with the daughters of Moab. These invited the people to the sacrifices of their gods, and the people ate and bowed down to their gods. So Israel yoked himself to Baal of Peor. And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel. And the LORD said to Moses, "Take all the chiefs of the people and hang them in the sun before the LORD, that the fierce anger of the LORD may turn away from Israel." And Moses said to the judges of Israel, "Each of you kill those of his men who have yoked themselves to Baal of Peor."

> **Numbers 25:9**
Those who died by the plague were twenty-four thousand.

> **Numbers 31:7, 15-16**
They warred against Midian, as the LORD commanded Moses, and killed every male....
> Moses said to them, "Have you let all the women live? Behold, these, on Balaam's advice, caused the people of Israel to act treacherously against the LORD in the incident of Peor, and so the plague came among the congregation of the LORD.

> **Deuteronomy 4:3-4**
Your eyes have seen what the LORD did at Baal-peor, for the LORD your God destroyed from among you all the men who followed the Baal of Peor. But you who held fast to the LORD your God are all alive today.

> **Psalm 106:28-31**
Then they yoked themselves to the Baal of Peor,
and ate sacrifices offered to the dead;
they provoked the LORD to anger with their deeds,
and a plague broke out among them.
Then Phinehas stood up and intervened,
and the plague was stayed.
And that was counted to him as righteousness
from generation to generation forever.

> **Hosea 9:10**
Like grapes in the wilderness,
I found Israel.
Like the first fruit on the fig tree
in its first season,
I saw your fathers.
But they came to Baal-peor
and consecrated themselves to the thing of shame,
and became detestable like the thing they loved.


## 2:15 ##
"So also you have some who hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans."

### Nicolaitans   ###
Compare 2:6


## 2:16 ##
"Therefore repent. If not, I will come to you soon and war against them with the sword of my mouth."

### sword of my mouth ###
Refer to note at 1:16


## 2:17 ##
"He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers I will give some of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, with a new name written on the stone that no one knows except the one who receives it.'"

### He who has an ear, let him hear   ###
Refer to note at 2:7

### hidden manna   ###
> **Exodus 16:31-34**
Now the house of Israel called its name manna. It was like coriander seed, white, and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey. Moses said, "This is what the LORD has commanded: 'Let an omer of it be kept throughout your generations, so that they may see the bread with which I fed you in the wilderness, when I brought you out of the land of Egypt.'" And Moses said to Aaron, "Take a jar, and put an omer of manna in it, and place it before the LORD to be kept throughout your generations." As the LORD commanded Moses, so Aaron placed it before the testimony to be kept.

> **Hebrews 9:2-4, 7-8, 11-12, 24**
For a tent was prepared, the first section, in which were the lampstand and the table and the bread of the Presence. It is called the Holy Place. Behind the second curtain was a second section called the Most Holy Place, having the golden altar of incense and the ark of the covenant covered on all sides with gold, in which was a golden urn holding the manna, and Aaron's staff that budded, and the tablets of the covenant....

> Into the second only the high priest goes, and he but once a year, and not without taking blood, which he offers for himself and for the unintentional sins of the people. By this the Holy Spirit indicates that the way into the holy places is not yet opened as long as the first section is still standing....

> But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent (not made with hands, that is, not of this creation) he entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption....

> For Christ has entered, not into holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true things, but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God on our behalf.

### a new name written on the stone that no one knows except the one who receives it   ###
Compare 3:12

> **Zechariah 3:6-7, 9**
And the angel of the LORD solemnly assured Joshua, "Thus says the LORD of hosts: If you will walk in my ways and keep my charge, then you shall rule my house and have charge of my courts, and I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here....

> For behold, on the stone that I have set before Joshua, on a single stone with seven eyes, I will engrave its inscription, declares the LORD of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day.



## 2:18 ##
"And to the angel of the church in Thyatira write: 'The words of the Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire, and whose feet are like burnished bronze."

### eyes like a flame of fire ###
### feet...like burnished bronze ###

## 2:19 ##
"'I know your works, your love and faith and service and patient endurance, and that your latter works exceed the first."


## 2:20 ##
"But I have this against you, that you tolerate that woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess and is teaching and seducing my servants to practice sexual immorality and to eat food sacrificed to idols."

### tolerate ###
Greek, ἀφίημι. Compare and contrast:
**Matthew 6:12, 14-15** Forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors.... For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you, but if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
**Matthew 15:14** Let them alone; they are blind guides. And if the blind lead the blind, both will fall into a pit.
**Mark 11:16** And he would not allow anyone to carry anything through the temple.
**Luke 13:8** And he answered him, 'Sir, let it alone this year also, until I dig around it and put on manure.
**Revelation 2:4** But I have this against you, that you have abandoned the love you had at first.

## 2:21 ##
"I gave her time to repent, but she refuses to repent of her sexual immorality."


## 2:22 ##
"Behold, I will throw her onto a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her I will throw into great tribulation, unless they repent of her works,"


## 2:23 ##
"and I will strike her children dead. And all the churches will know that I am he who searches mind and heart, and I will give to each of you according to your works."


## 2:24 ##
"But to the rest of you in Thyatira, who do not hold this teaching, who have not learned what some call the deep things of Satan, to you I say, I do not lay on you any other burden."


## 2:25 ##
"Only hold fast what you have until I come."


## 2:26 ##
"The one who conquers and who keeps my works until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations,"


## 2:27 ##
"and he will rule them with a rod of iron, as when earthen pots are broken in pieces, even as I myself have received authority from my Father."


## 2:28 ##
"And I will give him the morning star."


## 2:29 ##
"He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.'"


[Table of Contents](#revelation)
