# Chapter 5 #

## 5:1 ##
"Then I saw in the right hand of him who was seated on the throne a scroll written within and on the back, sealed with seven seals."

> **Exodus 32:15**
Then Moses turned and went down from the mountain with the two tablets of the testimony in his hand, tablets that were written on both sides; on the front and on the back they were written.
> **Ezekiel 2:9-10**
And when I looked, behold, a hand was stretched out to me, and behold, a scroll of a book was in it. And he spread it before me. And it had writing on the front and on the back, and there were written on it words of lamentation and mourning and woe.

> **[The Historical Background of The Ancient Scroll](https://sites.dartmouth.edu/ancientbooks/2016/05/24/the-historical-background-of-the-ancient-scroll/)**
The side that was written on was the horizontal side, which was called a _recto_, where the fibers were parallel to the length of the roll and lines of writing. Writing on the _verso_ or vertical side was unusual, but was still acceptable. A scroll was usually only written on one side unless the scroll was reused, becoming a palimpsest or a piece of writing material where the original writing was washed off and new writing was made.
**[Wikipedia: "Palimpsest"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palimpsest)**
In textual studies, a palimpsest is a manuscript page, either from a scroll or a book, from which the text has been scraped or washed off so that the page can be reused for another document. Parchment was made of lamb, calf, or goat kid skin and was expensive and not readily available, so in the interest of economy a page was often re-used by scraping off the previous writing.

## 5:2 ##
"And I saw a mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice, "Who is worthy to open the scroll and break its seals?"

> **Daniel 12:4**
But you, Daniel, shut up the words and seal the book, until the time of the end.


## 5:3 ##
"And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look into it,"


## 5:4 ##
"and I began to weep loudly because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or to look into it."


## 5:5 ##
"And one of the elders said to me, "Weep no more; behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has conquered, so that he can open the scroll and its seven seals."

### Lion of the tribe of Judah ###
>**Genesis 49:8-12**
Judah, your brothers shall praise you;
your hand shall be on the neck of your enemies;
your father's sons shall bow down before you.
Judah is a lion's cub;
from the prey, my son, you have gone up.
He stooped down; he crouched as a lion
and as a lioness; who dares rouse him?
The scepter shall not depart from Judah,
nor the ruler's staff from between his feet,
until tribute comes to him;
and to him shall be the obedience of the peoples.
Binding his foal to the vine
and his donkey's colt to the choice vine,
he has washed his garments in wine
and his vesture in the blood of grapes.
His eyes are darker than wine,
and his teeth whiter than milk.

### Root of David ###
>**Isaiah 11:1-2, 9-10**
There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse, and a branch from his roots shall bear fruit. And the Spirit of the LORD shall rest upon him, the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of counsel and might, the Spirit of knowledge and the fear of the LORD.
They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain; for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the LORD as the waters cover the sea. In that day the root of Jesse, who shall stand as a signal for the peoples--of him shall the nations inquire, and his resting place shall be glorious.
**Romans 15:8-9, 12**
I tell you that Christ became a servant to the circumcised to show God's truthfulness, in order to confirm the promises given to the patriarchs, and in order that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy. As it is written, "Therefore I will praise you among the Gentiles, and sing to your name."
And again Isaiah says, "The root of Jesse will come, even he who arises to rule the Gentiles; in him will the Gentiles hope."

### has conquered ###
>**John 16:33**
"I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart; I have overcome the world."
**1 John 5:4-5**
Everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world--our faith. Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?

## 5:6 ##
"And between the throne and the four living creatures and among the elders I saw a Lamb standing, as though it had been slain, with seven horns and with seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth."

### between the throne and the four living creatures ###
>**1 Timothy 2:5**
There is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus....

### and among the elders ###
>**Hebrews 2:10-12, 14**
It was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers, saying, "I will tell of your name to my brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will sing your praise."
Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things, that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil....

### lamb ###
>**Exodus 12:3, 6-7, 13**
Tell all the congregation of Israel that on the tenth day of this month every man shall take a lamb according to their fathers' houses, a lamb for a household. ...And you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of this month, when the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill their lambs at twilight.
Then they shall take some of the blood and put it on the two doorposts and the lintel of the houses in which they eat it.... The blood shall be a sign for you, on the houses where you are. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and no plague will befall you to destroy you, when I strike the land of Egypt.
**John 1:29**
The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him, and said, "Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!"
**Acts 8:32, 35**
Now the passage of the Scripture that he was reading was this: "Like a sheep he was led to the slaughter and like a lamb before its shearer is silent, so he opens not his mouth.
Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning with this Scripture he told him the good news about Jesus.
**1 Corinthians 5:7**
Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, as you really are unleavened. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed.
**1 Peter 1:17-19**
Conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot.


### standing, as though it had been slain ###
>**Genesis 22:2, 5-8, 13-14**
He said, "Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you."
Then Abraham said to his young men, "Stay here with the donkey; I and the boy will go over there and worship and come again to you." And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son. And he took in his hand the fire and the knife. So they went both of them together. And Isaac said to his father Abraham, "My father!" And he said, "Here I am, my son." He said, "Behold, the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?" Abraham said, "God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son." So they went both of them together.
And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him was a ram, caught in a thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son. So Abraham called the name of that place, "The LORD will provide"; as it is said to this day, "On the mount of the LORD it shall be provided."



## 5:7 ##
"And he went and took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated on the throne."


## 5:8 ##
"And when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each holding a harp, and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints."


## 5:9 ##
"And they sang a new song, saying, "Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation,"


## 5:10 ##
"and you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth."


## 5:11 ##
"Then I looked, and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voice of many angels, numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands,"
>**Daniel 7:10**
...a thousand thousands served him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him....

## 5:12 ##
"saying with a loud voice, "Worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing!"


## 5:13 ##
"And I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea, and all that is in them, saying, "To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might forever and ever!"


## 5:14 ##
"And the four living creatures said, "Amen!" and the elders fell down and worshiped."


[Table of Contents](#revelation)
