# Chapter 9 #

## 9:1 ##
"And the fifth angel blew his trumpet, and I saw a star fallen from heaven to earth, and he was given the key to the shaft of the bottomless pit."


## 9:2 ##
"He opened the shaft of the bottomless pit, and from the shaft rose smoke like the smoke of a great furnace, and the sun and the air were darkened with the smoke from the shaft."


## 9:3 ##
"Then from the smoke came locusts on the earth, and they were given power like the power of scorpions of the earth."


## 9:4 ##
"They were told not to harm the grass of the earth or any green plant or any tree, but only those people who do not have the seal of God on their foreheads."


## 9:5 ##
"They were allowed to torment them for five months, but not to kill them, and their torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it stings someone."


## 9:6 ##
"And in those days people will seek death and will not find it. They will long to die, but death will flee from them."


## 9:7 ##
"In appearance the locusts were like horses prepared for battle: on their heads were what looked like crowns of gold; their faces were like human faces,"


## 9:8 ##
"their hair like women's hair, and their teeth like lions' teeth;"


## 9:9 ##
"they had breastplates like breastplates of iron, and the noise of their wings was like the noise of many chariots with horses rushing into battle."


## 9:10 ##
"They have tails and stings like scorpions, and their power to hurt people for five months is in their tails."


## 9:11 ##
"They have as king over them the angel of the bottomless pit. His name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in Greek he is called Apollyon."


## 9:12 ##
"The first woe has passed; behold, two woes are still to come."


## 9:13 ##
"Then the sixth angel blew his trumpet, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar before God,"

### four horns of the golden alter ###
>**Exodus 30:1–3, 6**
"You shall make an altar on which to burn incense; you shall make it of acacia wood. A cubit shall be its length, and a cubit its breadth. It shall be square, and two cubits shall be its height. Its horns shall be of one piece with it. You shall overlay it with pure gold, its top and around its sides and its horns. And you shall make a molding of gold around it.... And you shall put it in front of the veil that is above the ark of the testimony, in front of the mercy seat that is above the testimony, where I will meet with you."

## 9:14 ##
"saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, "Release the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates."

### river Euphrates ###
>**Jeremiah 46:2, 6, 10**
About Egypt. Concerning the army of Pharaoh Neco, king of Egypt, which was by the river Euphrates at Carchemish and which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon defeated in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah.... The swift cannot flee away, nor the warrior escape; in the north by the river Euphrates they have stumbled and fallen.... That day is the day of the Lord GOD of hosts, a day of vengeance, to avenge himself on his foes. The sword shall devour and be sated and drink its fill of their blood. For the Lord GOD of hosts holds a sacrifice in the north country by the river Euphrates.

## 9:15 ##
"So the four angels, who had been prepared for the hour, the day, the month, and the year, were released to kill a third of mankind."

### prepared for the hour, the day, the month, and the year ###
>**Genesis 7:11**
In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on that day all the fountains of the great deep burst forth, and the windows of the heavens were opened.
**2 Kings 25:1**
And in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came with all his army against Jerusalem and laid siege to it. And they built siegeworks all around it.


## 9:16 ##
"The number of mounted troops was twice ten thousand times ten thousand; I heard their number."

### twice ten thousand times ten thousand ###
>**Psalm 68:17**
The chariots of God are twice ten thousand, thousands upon thousands; the Lord is among them; Sinai is now in the sanctuary.
**Daniel 7:10**
A stream of fire issued and came out from before him; a thousand thousands served him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him; the court sat in judgment, and the books were opened.

### I heard their number ###


## 9:17 ##
"And this is how I saw the horses in my vision and those who rode them: they wore breastplates the color of fire and of sapphire and of sulfur, and the heads of the horses were like lions' heads, and fire and smoke and sulfur came out of their mouths."

### fire and sapphire and sulfur ###
>**Genesis 19:24**
Then the LORD rained on Sodom and Gomorrah sulfur and fire from the LORD out of heaven.
**Psalm 11:6**
Let him rain coals on the wicked; fire and sulfur and a scorching wind shall be the portion of their cup.

### lion's heads ###
>**Isaiah 5:26–30**
He will raise a signal for nations far away, and whistle for them from the ends of the earth; and behold, quickly, speedily they come! None is weary, none stumbles, none slumbers or sleeps, not a waistband is loose, not a sandal strap broken; their arrows are sharp, all their bows bent, their horses' hoofs seem like flint, and their wheels like the whirlwind. Their roaring is like a lion, like young lions they roar; they growl and seize their prey; they carry it off, and none can rescue. They will growl over it on that day, like the growling of the sea. And if one looks to the land, behold, darkness and distress; and the light is darkened by its clouds.

### fire and smoke and sulfur came out of their mouths ###
>**Psalm 18:1, 6–8**
A Psalm of David, the servant of the LORD, who addressed the words of this song to the LORD on the day when the LORD delivered him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul. He said:
I love you, O LORD, my strength.... In my distress I called upon the LORD; to my God I cried for help. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry to him reached his ears. Then the earth reeled and rocked; the foundations also of the mountains trembled and quaked, because he was angry. Smoke went up from his nostrils, and devouring fire from his mouth; glowing coals flamed forth from him.

## 9:18 ##
"By these three plagues a third of mankind was killed, by the fire and smoke and sulfur coming out of their mouths."


## 9:19 ##
"For the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails, for their tails are like serpents with heads, and by means of them they wound."

### tails...like serpents ###
>**Proverbs 23:29–32**
Who has wounds without cause...? Those who tarry long over wine.... Do not look at wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup and goes down smoothly. In the end it bites like a serpent and stings like an adder.

## 9:20 ##
"The rest of mankind, who were not killed by these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands nor give up worshiping demons and idols of gold and silver and bronze and stone and wood, which cannot see or hear or walk,"

### did not repent ###
>**Matthew 11:20, 23–24**
Then he began to denounce the cities where most of his mighty works had been done, because they did not repent....
Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will be brought down to Hades. For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. But I tell you that it will be more tolerable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for you.

### idols of gold and silver and bronze and stone and wood, which cannot see or hear or walk, ###
>**Deuteronomy 4:28**
And there you will serve gods of wood and stone, the work of human hands, that neither see, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell.
**Daniel 5:23**
And you have praised the gods of silver and gold, of bronze, iron, wood, and stone, which do not see or hear or know, but the God in whose hand is your breath, and whose are all your ways, you have not honored.

## 9:21 ##
"nor did they repent of their murders or their sorceries or their sexual immorality or their thefts."

### sorceries ###
>**φαρμακεία**
I.
1. use of drugs, esp. of purgatives...; i. e. emetics; of abortifacients..., generally, the use of any kind of drugs, potions, or spells....
2. poisoning or witchcraft....
II.
metaphorically, remedy
[Liddell & Scott](http://stephanus.tlg.uci.edu/lsj/#eid=113305)

>**Galatians 5:19–21**
Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, _sorcery_, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.

Compare φάρμακος:
>**21:8**
But as for the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, _sorcerers_, idolaters, and all liars, their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death.
**22:15**
Outside are the dogs and _sorcerers_ and the sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices falsehood.


[Table of Contents](#revelation)
