# Chapter 11 #

## 11:1 ##
"Then I was given a measuring rod like a staff, and I was told, "Rise and measure the temple of God and the altar and those who worship there,"

>**Ezekiel 40:1–4**
In the twenty-fifth year of our exile, at the beginning of the year, on the tenth day of the month, in the fourteenth year after the city was struck down, on that very day, the hand of the LORD was upon me, and he brought me to the city. In visions of God he brought me to the land of Israel, and set me down on a very high mountain, on which was a structure like a city to the south. When he brought me there, behold, there was a man whose appearance was like bronze, with a linen cord and a measuring reed in his hand. And he was standing in the gateway. And the man said to me, "Son of man, look with your eyes, and hear with your ears, and set your heart upon all that I shall show you, for you were brought here in order that I might show it to you. Declare all that you see to the house of Israel."
>**Ezekiel 43:10–11**
As for you, son of man, describe to the house of Israel the temple, that they may be ashamed of their iniquities; and they shall measure the plan. And if they are ashamed of all that they have done, make known to them the design of the temple, its arrangement, its exits and its entrances, that is, its whole design; and make known to them as well all its statutes and its whole design and all its laws, and write it down in their sight, so that they may observe all its laws and all its statutes and carry them out.

## 11:2 ##
"but do not measure the court outside the temple; leave that out, for it is given over to the nations, and they will trample the holy city for forty-two months."

I.e., a year (12 months), years (24 months), and half a year (6 months).


## 11:3 ##
"And I will grant authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for 1,260 days, clothed in sackcloth."

I.e., 3 and a half years of 30-day months.


## 11:4 ##
"These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth."

>**Zechariah 4:2–3, 6–10, 12, 14**
And he said to me, "What do you see?" I said, "I see, and behold, a lampstand all of gold, with a bowl on the top of it, and seven lamps on it, with seven lips on each of the lamps that are on the top of it. And there are two olive trees by it, one on the right of the bowl and the other on its left."
Then he said to me, "This is the word of the LORD to Zerubbabel: Not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit, says the LORD of hosts. Who are you, O great mountain? Before Zerubbabel you shall become a plain. And he shall bring forward the top stone amid shouts of 'Grace, grace to it!'" Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying, "The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this house; his hands shall also complete it. Then you will know that the LORD of hosts has sent me to you. For whoever has despised the day of small things shall rejoice, and shall see the plumb line in the hand of Zerubbabel. "These seven are the eyes of the LORD, which range through the whole earth."
And a second time I answered and said to him, "What are these two branches of the olive trees, which are beside the two golden pipes from which the golden oil is poured out?"
Then he said, "These are the two anointed ones who stand by the Lord of the whole earth."


## 11:5 ##
"And if anyone would harm them, fire pours from their mouth and consumes their foes. If anyone would harm them, this is how he is doomed to be killed."


## 11:6 ##
"They have the power to shut the sky, that no rain may fall during the days of their prophesying, and they have power over the waters to turn them into blood and to strike the earth with every kind of plague, as often as they desire."


## 11:7 ##
"And when they have finished their testimony, the beast that rises from the bottomless pit will make war on them and conquer them and kill them,"


## 11:8 ##
"and their dead bodies will lie in the street of the great city that symbolically is called Sodom and Egypt, where their Lord was crucified."


## 11:9 ##
"For three and a half days some from the peoples and tribes and languages and nations will gaze at their dead bodies and refuse to let them be placed in a tomb,"


## 11:10 ##
"and those who dwell on the earth will rejoice over them and make merry and exchange presents, because these two prophets had been a torment to those who dwell on the earth."


## 11:11 ##
"But after the three and a half days a breath of life from God entered them, and they stood up on their feet, and great fear fell on those who saw them."


## 11:12 ##
"Then they heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, "Come up here!" And they went up to heaven in a cloud, and their enemies watched them."


## 11:13 ##
"And at that hour there was a great earthquake, and a tenth of the city fell. Seven thousand people were killed in the earthquake, and the rest were terrified and gave glory to the God of heaven."


## 11:14 ##
"The second woe has passed; behold, the third woe is soon to come."


## 11:15 ##
"Then the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven, saying, "The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever."


## 11:16 ##
"And the twenty-four elders who sit on their thrones before God fell on their faces and worshiped God,"


## 11:17 ##
"saying, "We give thanks to you, Lord God Almighty, who is and who was, for you have taken your great power and begun to reign."


## 11:18 ##
"The nations raged, but your wrath came, and the time for the dead to be judged, and for rewarding your servants, the prophets and saints, and those who fear your name, both small and great, and for destroying the destroyers of the earth."


## 11:19 ##
"Then God's temple in heaven was opened, and the ark of his covenant was seen within his temple. There were flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder, an earthquake, and heavy hail."


[Table of Contents](#revelation)
